- References
	- [Kissing in Vietnamese Remix by Luke McCarthy on Prezi](https://prezi.com/p/edwhpjpdomyz/kissing-in-vietnamese-remix/)
	- [“Kissing in Vietnamese” illustrated #vizpoem | Visual Poetry](https://vizpoem.wordpress.com/2020/06/04/kissing-in-vietnamese-illustrated-vizpoem/)
	- {{video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ef8nLUwryNM}}
	- {{video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ov30UM_H37U}}
- ---
- When we think about kissing, we often understand it as a universal way of expressing love. Therefore, one does not kiss in a language, the only distinguishing feature of a kiss can be the way of kissing like a French kiss, or an American kiss. However, to Vuong, there is a culturally specific kiss in the language of Vietnam. In his poem “Kissing in Vietnamese”, he introduced us to the kiss that was characterized by love with the influence of war trauma.
- Originally, the behaviors of the grandmother were commonly the act of love: “My grandmother kisses”, “nose pressed to cheek”, and “She holds you”. It can either show affection, perform a greeting or farewell. However, it is not a flashy one, and it is especially different from the way of westerner kisses that everyone might know of. The kiss from the narrator’s point of view was more intensive. To evoke the hard kiss that his grandmother gave him without any weirdness in the audience's mind, the author delicately put it beside many fierce images such as the bursting bombs in the backyard, the falling body, and the flame; nevertheless, instead of using a metaphor, the usage of “as if” here denotes an unreal situation along with the movement from the big bombing scene then close to a thigh, a body of a human. From there we understand, that the grandmother was a victim of the Vietnam War as the title says “in Vietnamese” and she kisses while imagining the severity of the war as to the publication year of the poem, the war ended years ago. The kiss she does is not the kiss of a grandmother who has a passionate love for her grandchild, but a kiss like the one she made back in the war.
- Being influenced by the haunting war in the past, the love expressed through the grandmother's behaviors seems to have another meaning. In times of war, when a person is so feeble that he could die immediately walking “out of the door”, always has death as near as “clutching your waist” and when the beauty can be so fragile that the mint and jasmine perfumes in the garden could be completely wiped out by the napalm bomb smell, one existence can be so valuable that it can be lost unexpectedly. The impact of it on one life can be so enormous and long-lasting that inside the grandmother's mind, “the history never ended”. Moreover, the never-ending trauma imprinted in her brain is further stressed by the parallel structure the author made when repeating the line “a body is falling apart” and with more emphasis on the latter one through the word “still”. Kisses, in these times, become a means of preserving the proof of existence and a way to cherish a person to the fullest as if there is no other way to see them again. Therefore, the grandmother kisses, to breathe her grandchild's precious sweat inside her lungs, which are closest to her heart, and to relearn the scent, which she might be already familiar with, but is never enough.
- In conclusion, “Kissing in Vietnamese” is not simply a kiss that was deeply affected by the trauma, but rather it shows that the more helpless one can be when trying to protect their beloved person, the more desperate their love is. Additionally, it demonstrates how precious a person's life can be, even when the war has ended.
- ---
- Revised: