- Read the following text (from Reading passage 1 - Test 1 - Cambridge IELTS 18). Do the morphological analysis of the words from (1) to (5). 
  E.g. farmers - farm: free root, content word + -er: bound morph, derivational suffix + -s: bound morph, inflectional suffix
                                                                         Urban farming
  In Paris, urban farmers are trying a soil-free approach to agriculture that uses less space and fewer resources. Could it help cities face the threats to our food supplies?
  On top of a striking new exhibition hall in (1) southern Paris, the (2) world’s largest urban rooftop farm has started to bear fruit. Strawberries that are small, intensely flavoured and resplendently red sprout abundantly from large plastic tubes. Peer inside and you see the tubes are completely hollow, the roots of dozens of strawberry plants dangling down inside them. From identical vertical tubes nearby burst row upon row of lettuces; near those are aromatic herbs, such as basil, sage and peppermint. Opposite, in narrow, horizontal trays packed not with soil but with coconut fibre, grow cherry tomatoes, shiny aubergines and brightly (3) coloured chards.
  Pascal Hardy, an engineer and (4) sustainable development consultant, began experimenting with vertical farming and aeroponic growing towers- as the soil-free plastic tubes are known – on his Paris apartment block roof five years ago. The urban rooftop space above the exhibition hall is somewhat (5) bigger: 14,000 square metres and almost exactly the size of a couple of football pitches. Already, the team of young urban farmers who tend it have picked, in one day, 3,000 lettuces and 150 punnets of strawberries. When the remaining two thirds of the vast open area are in production, 20 staff will harvest up to 1,000 kg of perhaps 35 different varieties of fruit and vegetables, every day. ‘We’re not ever, obviously, going to feed the whole city this way,’ cautions Hardy. ‘In the urban environment you’re working with very significant practical constraints, clearly, on what you can do and where. But if enough unused space can be developed like this, there’s no reason why you shouldn’t eventually target maybe between 5% and 10% of consumption.’
	- southern - south: free root, content word + ern: bound morph, derivational suffix; world’s - world: free root, content word + 's: bound morph, derivational suffix; coloured - colour: free root, content word + ed: bound morph, inflectional suffix; sustainable: sustain - free root, content word + able: bound morph, derivational suffix; bigger: big - free root, content word + er: bound morph, inflectional suffix
- Read the text in Question 1 once again. Find out 5 words which follow the morphological pattern:
  free root - content word + bound morph - derivational suffix 
  E.g. exhibition = exhibit/ ition
	- resplendent/ly, horizon/tal, exact/ly, product/ion, vert/ical
- Read the following text (from Reading passage 1 - Test 1 - Cambridge IELTS 18). Do the morphemic analysis of the words from (1) to (5). 
  E.g. significantly: {SIGNIFY} - lexical morpheme, content word + {-ANT} - lexical morpheme, derivational suffix + {-LY} - lexical morpheme, derivational suffix
  
  "Perhaps most significantly, however, this is a real-life showcase for the work of Hardy’s flourishing urban agriculture consultancy, Agripolis, which is currently fielding (1) enquiries from around the world to design, build and equip a new breed of soil-free (2) inner-city farm. ‘The method’s advantages are many,’ he says. ‘First, I don’t much like the fact that most of the fruit and vegetables we eat have been (3) treated with something like 17 different pesticides, or that the intensive farming techniques that produced them are such huge generators of greenhouse gases. I don’t much like the fact, either, that they’ve travelled an average of 2,000 refrigerated kilometres to my plate, that (4) their quality is so poor, because the varieties are selected for their capacity to withstand such substantial journeys, or that 80% of the price I pay goes to (5) wholesalers and transport companies, not the producers.’
	- enquiries: {ENQUIRY} - lexical morpheme, content word + {ES} - grammatical morpheme, inflectional suffix;  inner-city: {INNER} - lexical morpheme, content word + {CITY} - lexical morpheme, content word; treated: {TREAT} - lexical morpheme, content word + {ED} - grammatical morpheme, inflectional suffix; their: {THEIR} - grammatical morpheme, function word; wholesaler: {WHOLESALE} - lexical morpheme, content word + {ER} - lexical morpheme, derivational suffix + {S} - grammatical morpheme, inflectional suffix
- Read the text in Question 3 once again. Find out 5 words that contain an inflectional morpheme. State the name of the inflectional morpheme in each word. 
  E.g. Hardy's - 's: possessive morpheme
	- flourishing - ing: participle morpheme, fielding - ing: participle morpheme, method’s - 's: possessive morpheme, varieties - es: plural morpheme, produced - ed: participle morpheme