## Lead-in
	- Reflect on what you have learnt in Unit 1 to fill in each blank with ONE suitable word.
	- The British Isles is the geographical term for a group of about 5,000 islands off the north-west coast of mainland Europe between the latitudes of 50째N and 61째N. The largest island is Britain or *Great Britain* which is also the largest island in Europe. It consists of England, Wales and Scotland. The next largest island is Ireland, which is made up of Northern Ireland (or Ulster) and the Irish Republic (also known as Eire). Britain and Northern Ireland, together with a small number of islands, form the United Kingdom of Britain and Northern Ireland, more commonly known as the United Kingdom (which is almost 20% smaller than Italy). In everyday usage, however, Britain is used to mean the United Kingdom [^1] [^2]
- ## British Physical Geography
	- The UK is an island nation in Western Europe. The mainland areas lie between to South it is about 49'N and 59'N and longitudes 8째W to 2째E. From North The UK lies between the North Atlantic Ocean and the North Sea, and comes within 35kes of the northwest coast of France, from which it is separated by the English Channel Tunnel bored beneath the English Channel now links the UK with France Northern Ireland shares a 360km international land boundary with the Republic of Ireland latitudes 1,000km long Channel. The
	- The UK is bordered by four seas:
		- to the south by the English Channel, which separates it from continental Europe
		- to the east by the North Sea
		- to the west by the Irish Sea and the Atlantic Ocean
- ## Topography
	- Great Britain is just under 1,000 km long and just under 500km across in its widest part Great Best imountainous region is Scotland (with Britain's highest peak, Ben Nevis 1.343m), which also has a wide lowland area between the Grampians and the Southern Uplands, where most of the large town, including Edinburgh and Glasgow, and three quarters of the population are located. Much of Wales is also mountainous and in England the Pennine Range (the 'backbone of England) extends 224km (although the highest peak is only 895m high). The rest of England tends to be rather undulating, and not even the large agricultural plains of East Anglia are perfectly flat, In Ireland all the highland areas are around the edge, but there are no peaks over 1.100m. Overall, the south and east of the country is comparatively low-lying, consisting of either flat plains, or gently rolling hills. Mountainous areas are found only in the north and west, although these regions also have flat areas.
	- Rivers in Britain are quite short. The longest rivers are the Severn and the Thames, but the easy navigability has made them an important part of the inland transport network for the transportation of bulk products such as coal, iron ore and steel.
	- Britain has neither towering mountain ranges nor impressively large rivers, plains or forests. But this does not mean that its landscape is boring. What it lacks in grandeur it makes up for in variety. The scenery changes noticeably over quite short distances. It has often been remarked that a journey of 100 miles (160km) can, as a result, seem twice as far.
-
- ## Footnotes
	- [^1]: {{renderer archive https://studfile.net/preview/5663494/page:32/}}
	-